Changelog: FlowFuse Expert builds your application (#4964)
FlowFuse/website: src/changelog/2026/05/expert-application-building.md

---
title: FlowFuse Expert Builds Your Application
description: "Describe the application you want, and FlowFuse Expert assembles it on your Node-RED canvas: tabs, nodes, wires, and configuration."
date: 2026-05-07 12:00:00
authors: ['dimitrie-hoekstra']
tags:
  - changelog

> issues:

Reviewer: could you please add here related issue please?

Author: Left empty, matching the 2.29 expert-action-links precedent. The implementation spans many flowfuse PRs and the parent epics for this work live in our internal product repo, so there is no single user-facing flowfuse-repo issue worth linking here.

---

> You can now describe the application you want to build, and FlowFuse Expert assembles it for you directly on your Node-RED canvas. It adds tabs, drops in nodes, wires them together, and configures their properties, so you can start from a working flow instead of a blank canvas.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now describe want you want to build, and the FlowFuse Expert will assemble it for you directly on your Node-RED workspace. It adds tabs, drops in nodes, wires them together, and configures their properties, to help get you up and running.
```

Maybe this ^ ?

Author: Applied in e7d51939, with one tweak: "want" -> "what" in the first clause.

> Until now, the Expert could answer questions, suggest changes, and act on links you clicked. Turning those suggestions into a working OEE dashboard, MES handover screen, or Modbus-to-UNS bridge still meant placing every node and wire by hand. Now the Expert does that work for you, and you keep iterating in chat to shape the result around your real-world setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, the Expert could answer questions, suggest changes, and act on links 
you clicked. Turning those suggestions into a working OEE dashboard, MES handover screen, or Modbus-to-UNS bridge still meant placing every node and wire by hand. Now the Expert does that work for you, and you keep iterating in chat to shape the result around your real-world setup.
```

Author: Applied in e7d51939.

> ![FlowFuse Expert assembling an application on the Node-RED canvas from a chat prompt](./images/expert-application-building.gif){data-zoomable}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![FlowFuse Expert assembling flows on the Node-RED workspace from a chat prompt](./images/expert-application-building.gif){data-zoomable}
```

Author: Applied in e7d51939.

> *FlowFuse Expert assembling an application on the Node-RED canvas from a chat prompt.*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*FlowFuse Expert assembling an application on the Node-RED workspace from a chat prompt.*
```

Author: Applied in e7d51939.

date: 2026-05-07 12:00:00
authors: ['nick-oleary']
tags:
  - changelog
issues:
---

You can now describe the application you want to build, and FlowFuse Expert assembles it for you directly on your Node-RED canvas. It adds tabs, drops in nodes, wires them together, and configures their properties, so you can start from a working flow instead of a blank canvas.

Until now, the Expert could answer questions, suggest changes, and act on links you clicked. Turning those suggestions into a working OEE dashboard, MES handover screen, or Modbus-to-UNS bridge still meant placing every node and wire by hand. Now the Expert does that work for you, and you keep iterating in chat to shape the result around your real-world setup.

As the Expert works, real-time tool-call status keeps you in the loop, so you can see what it is adding and why.

<!-- TODO: replace placeholder with a short screen recording of the Expert assembling, for example, an OEE dashboard on the canvas. Upload to YouTube via #dev-marketing and embed with <lite-youtube>. -->

![Placeholder for screen recording of FlowFuse Expert building an application on the canvas](./images/expert-application-building.png){data-zoomable}

> *FlowFuse Expert assembling an application on the Node-RED canvas from a chat prompt.*

Author: TODO

Author: Resolved with the agentic-building gif in c3654be5.
